# Macaulay2 Code for Collections of Cells, Binomial Ideals and Gorenstein property

This folder provides a [Macaulay2](http://www2.macaulay2.com/Macaulay2/) implementation for studying the Gorensteiness of the non-prime binomial ideals associated with collections of cells.  

The code is designed to test the following conjecture:

 **Conjecture.**  
 If $P$ is a domino-stable collection of cells (equivalently, the switching rook polynomial of $P$ is palindromic) and the coordinate ring $K[P]$ is not a domain, then $K[P]$ is Gorenstein.

Moreover, two `.zip` archives are provided:  
- one contains the lists of collections of cells up to rank 8,  
- the other contains the lists of polyominoes up to rank 11.

Finally, two .txt files contain the output of the conjecture verification: for collections of cells up to rank 8 and for polyominoes up to rank 11.
These computations can be reproduced on a standard machine and do not require High Performance Computers.

We also provide three `.zip` archives — *Collection_of_Cells_Gor_Rank9*, *Collection_of_Cells_Gor_Rank10*, and *Polyominoes_Gor_Rank11* — which include all the necessary instructions (the `.m2` and `.slurm` scripts), together with the corresponding output folders in log-folders from the computations carried out on the Tosun HPC cluster.

---

## Code Structure

The script is divided into two main parts:

1. **Inner 2-minor ideal of a collection of cells**  
   - Construction of the polynomial ring associated to a collection of cells.  
   - Computation of the binomial ideal generated by inner $2$-minors.  

2. **Conjecture test**  
   - A function to check whether a polynomial with non-null coefficients is palindromic.  
   - A routine `TestGor` that verifies the conjecture on a given list of collections of cells.  

A collection is represented as a list `Q`, whose elements are the cells, each specified by its diagonal corners.  
Example:
```
      __
   __|__|
  |__|__|

 ``` 
is encoded as:  Q={{{1,1},{2,2}},{{2,1},{3,2}},{{2,2},{3,3}}}


---

## Requirements

- Packages:  
  - `Binomials`  
  - `TorAlgebra`  

Make sure these packages are loaded in your session before running the main function.  
